<pre>
  BIP: 999
  Layer: Applications
  Title: Out of Band Colored Coins Protocol
  Author: TODO
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/wiki/Comments:BIP-0999
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track or Informational Track
  Created: 2017-07-17
</pre>

---
**NOTE**

999 is a temporary BIP number.
---

==Abstract==

This BIP defines a scheme for storing cryptographic signatures based on the hierarchical deterministic wallets (HD from now on) algorithm.
described in BIP-0032 (BIP32 from now on) and purpose scheme described in
BIP-0043 (BIP43 from now on).
This BIP is a particular application of BIP43.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

==Motivation==

Leveraging the HD algorithm as described in BIP32 as a hidden storage on the blockchain to store cryptographic signatures, while maintaining high levels of privacy, efficiency, and interoperability. in terms of privacy, transactions that use this method are undetectable and structurally identical to regular transactions.
in terms of efficiency, the cryptographic signatures are encoded as part address, the data stored in the UTXO set, hence usage of this method has no additional cost over regular transaction. in terms of interoperability, this scheme is a cryptocurrency agnostic, this opens the door to a lot more applications in variety of digital assets.

==Specification==

We define the following levels in BIP32 path:

<code>
m / purpose' / coin_type' / contract_id' / *
</code>

Apostrophe in the path indicates that BIP32 hardened derivation is used.

Each level has special meaning described in the chapters below.

===Purpose===

Purpose is a constant set to 47' (or 0x800003E7) following the BIP43 recommendation. It indicates that the subtree of this node is used according to this specification.

<code>
m / 999' / *
</code>

Hardened derivation is used at this level.

===Coin type===

The coin type field is identical to the same field in BIP44

Hardened derivation is used at this level

===Contract Id===

Contract id is an arbitrary number within the valid range of indices as defined in BIP32. the derivation level produces an extended public key and its associated extended private key.

Hardened derivation is used at this level.

===Contract Path Derivation===

TODO

===Contract Path Verification===

TODO

==Examples==

TODO

==Reference==

* [[bip-0032.mediawiki|BIP32 - Hierarchical Deterministic Wallets]]
* [[bip-0043.mediawiki|BIP43 - Purpose Field for Deterministic Wallets]]
* [[bip-0044.mediawiki|BIP44 - Multi-Account Hierarchy for Deterministic Wallets]]
* [[https://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3257|Homomorphic Payment Addresses and the Pay-to-Contract Protocol]]
